---
tags:
  - Journal
  - Optimization
  - Mental
Related:
  - "[[01. Tech off]]"
Contents:
---


1. Double productivity in half the time.
2. Have a great deal of diffused time.
3. Cultivate a diverse and well-rounded schedule.
4. Ensure weekends are open.
5. Maintain a highly flexible and adaptive schedule.

To facilitate something like this we will have to get very creative on a subject by subject basis.

1. Mathematics
   - <span style="color:gray"> This one is a bit more difficult as AoPS lectures are at a minimum of 1 hour + supplementary study will likely be another hour 2 minimum study time. We then have on average 12 homework problems each taking a minimum of 10 min and a writing problem that takes a minimum of 60 min so total = 5hrs study / week.  The only way to speed this up is to simply improve foundational mathematics so that i can solve faster. We can use Alcumus for this daily. Try using Feynman Technique and light notes to increase adaptation speed.</span>
   
2. Physics
   - <span style="color:gray"> We are really in the same position as mathematics here. The only thing we can do is speed up problem solving efficiency otherwise minimum 5hrs / week. Try using Feynman Technique and light notes to increase adaptation speed.</span> (Learn with projects too)

3. Programming
   - <span style="color:gray"> Same thing we can just increase reading and absorption and problem solving speed. I suggest for all of these we get very very strong in fundamentals.</span> (Learn with projects too)

4. Chemistry
   - <span style="color:gray"> Same ^^</span> (Learn with projects too)



Ok so it looks like with some of these we reach a state of irreducible complexity where the bottle neck is reading time, comprehension, and problem solving speed. It also seems that each of these mentions how important foundations are so we could prioritize foundational practice problems as opposed to struggling to understand and piece together concepts.

For STEM it seems the best way to reduce further is to increase and foundational knowledge via practice problems, Feynman Technique, Recursive and inductive learning, also take competition tests to improve speed and challenge understanding. For proof writing, increase latex speed.


**STEM Strategy**:

- Regular practice problems to reinforce foundational knowledge. (study logic and proofs)
- Utilize the Feynman Technique and recursive and inductive learning for deeper understanding.
- Take competition tests to enhance speed and challenge comprehension.
- Improve efficiency in proof writing, logic, and use of tools like LaTeX.
- Develop a robust problem-solving framework.
- Whenever possible, supplement theoretical learning with projects.
- Keep up to date on technological and scientific advancements.



Workout throughout the day


   
5. Spanish
   - <span style="color:gray"> To eliminate the time it takes to study, we can attempt to use Spanish to replace everyday banter (even if others do not understand). If done properly, this may reduce dedicated.</span>

6. Philosophy / Appologetics
   * <span style="color:gray"> Mainly consists of reading, having discussions, and answering questions. You can attempt to contemplate when meditating to consolidate. For apologetics, integrate with bible </span>


Yeah philosophy can be reading, discussions, and journaling!!! Appologetics can be bible study!!! Spanish can be 30min daily plus banter all day!!!