---
tags:
  - Journal
  - instagram
---
It is not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a much it. Life is long enough, and a sufficiently generous amount has been given to us for the highest achievements if it were all well invested. But when it is wasted in heedless luxury and spent on no good activity, we are forced at last by death’s final constraint to realize that it has passed away before we knew it was passing. So it is: we are not given a short life but we make it short, and we are not ill-supplied but wasteful of it… Life is long if you know how to use it.
-Seneca


If anyone asks you what your goals or dreams are, you would be very quick to answer. If that same person then asks you what you have done recently to make that dream a reality, you may falter.

Why?

You have these dreams for a reason. They are your conception of what an idyllic life would look like. If you could create any life at the snap of your fingers, you would almost certainly describe your dreams. So why do we so rarely engage in actions that bring us closer to these goals?

At a high level, the answer is simple: distractions & heedless luxury.

Tired after you just woke up? Sleep a few more hours; the bed feels nice. Exhausted and don't want to work out? Rest until you feel up to it. Don't want to study? Scroll through social media for a bit.

This is the problem. We are constantly seeking a path away from the road of discomfort and discipline. Ultimately, it is a failure to defer our gratification.

Are you happy that you didn't wake up today, work out, or get anything done? You would probably find yourself answering: "No."

Of course, you're unhappy because you know that you have just wasted a day. You know that you could have done something with your time but didn't, and realize that by wasting your time, you are actually further away from your dreams than when you started.

Another destructive symptom of distraction is that it impairs one's ability to engage in deep, reflective thought or any creative outlet. This is because you are always listening for entertainment's sake and never truly digesting what was just said. You never meditate on these ideas and ponder how they might apply to your life.

When you are bored and do not allow yourself access to these entertainments, your mind begins to wander. You start asking yourself deep and resonant questions. You will be forced to confront the realities of your life and begin to assess how you might begin to lift yourself out of the chasm you threw yourself into. Fundamentally, you begin to confront your own shadow. You might then also feel compelled to do something, anything, other than sitting watching the clock tick painfully by. When social media, sleep, etc., is not an option, even something like studying or work will begin to feel compelling.

Therefore, in my analysis, I have come to believe that if you wish to pursue anything of meaning in this world, you must either eliminate distraction entirely or exercise proper discipline and learn to thrive in the midst of temptation.